I just...
Buck, did you find the agency too confining to work
for? It sort of bothers me that you kind of come and
go with such regularity in the agency. Was that
what was wrong? Yeah, it was just, no, it's the same
thing, a sense of freedom. I didn't want to, I felt
like I was incumbent with the agency, but now and
then I just get worried of it. I mean, the type of
work I was doing, assignments. What I was trying to
get away with myself, just no more assignments.
Which I did not. Only as an assignment I took on with
this A&M one, but I haven't, I don't take any more.
But just did what other prevailed of it, John Lentz
and Bucky, other Aggie alumni, there was an artist
and it's up to you to do it, and it kept on. I said,
okay, I'll do it. But I didn't want it. Because I was
afraid of it. I was more or less, didn't have free
reign, but they let me go. But I had some things I
wanted to put in there. I still have some of my best
subjects that I haven't, Because I feel small
ones. Oh my God, the beautiful things I've done.
It's like when I'm taking a roadie at the hospital.
All I knew was acting polo and all that type of
thing. But I still have them filming. The bonfire,
I stayed with that for a week, just watching that.
But I've got all those sketches of that, but I never
have. I've lost the focus. I haven't done the
library. Some of the library I want to work on. But I
couldn't do them all. It was eight. They finally
started with 40, went to six, and then to eight,
because it'll take 15 or 20 to really cope with this
thing. But I'd rather do it now and do some more, but
on my own volition. I'm doing this for boxing.
Well, I have to do that. I'm doing it for boxing. If
somebody is behind me or stipulating anything, I
fold up. I'm conscious somebody's going to say,
hey, I believe you better do it. But I won't do it.
I'm protecting myself. Mm-hmm. And you think
that's because of the agency work? You think the
pressure working with the agency all that time?
Oh, yeah. It was something. It had a lot to do with
it. But yeah, I've had free reign to do it. I don't
want to actually do this type of thing. But I've got
some other things. But I'll do them on my own.
Mostly action things. How did your marriage
survive under the pressure of the agency? You
seemed to have been gone all the time. Oh, no. Two
months. I was out on road trips for quite a bit,
maybe a week or so at a time, but at the time I was gone
for three weeks at most, I believe. Then I took on
some other work, back to Interwoven, up in the
Matthews Ranch. And then Book, and then with Carl
Hurt, I was a pastor a week. That was a beautiful
assignment, but I loved it. But, oh no, I just, I
don't want any more. But I don't know. Which way to
go? Sometimes I just don't know. I'm still
restless, isn't
it? When did you go? You go to Italy when? You do a
series of things, an Italian series? Oh, I did a
tremendous lot of Italian. I stayed in Italy about
two months, but I, God, I turned out a hundred or so
in one of those. Every day. I was so enthralled with
the same that I just, and then I'm really, and
essentially in Rome, there's Florence, and I went
to Venice, I just, I'll case the boot. And I get, oh
God, the material. And Ford, all Britain here, has
this place out here, I don't know what the region
was, has the biggest collection of Italian
things. How did you decide upon Italy? My brother
was, he was in Italy for 12 years, a sculptor, he was
the head of the Department of Sculpture in Rome,
the Academy in Rome. Oh, he's a Because my brother,
that's another thing, but he was, I think, a
top-ranking sculptor, because he died in 1971 in
America. Oh, he's tremendous. He started in Carl
Miller's. He was in Sweden, in the court with King
Gustav, doing fine. But he's the one that's had a
career that's colorful. But I was with him two
months. But I had plans with him, because that's
what, God, when he died, I think another segment of
my world just dropped away. Because I felt he was so
strong with key to key, I think, and everything I
moved. But, man, it was a joy. But we had great
plans, wasn't it, to work together, get a studio
scene. We thought about hunting, and he said,
somewhere I want a place where I can do my casting.
Let's work, let's be together. That was taken care
of. How many children were there in your family?
Five. Five. That's what I thought. Poor boy and his
sister. She died. And how many of you went into art?
Well, to be truthful with you, the only one that
didn't was my sister. Now Ted, my brother, he just
started going to the porcelains, like ceramics.
There's one in the center, that white one in there.
I think it was Wayne's office. And Pete, my
brother, was his He got him to sculpt it. He didn't
know he hadn't, he was never going to do it until
Rube Lee did sculpt one of his pieces. He was
driving a truck in Cuero. And he was doing a
sculpture on the side. And he was doing these
magnificent things. And she saw the plasma. God,
look at that. That man got the touch. Because she
knew sculpture was a good one. So that's when we Got
him out of Cuero in a hurry and put him to work with
Bill McVeigh, now he's teaching in the museum. And
he came rolling up and he went to see Millis, the top
man in the world, from Sweden, called Millis in
Cranbrook. And Carl's always waiting, took him in
a paper sack, took one head of him, got on the bus, we
sent him up there, are you going to call Millis?
Rupert Lee was my wife. And Millis said, my God, my
boy, I think I can use you, I've been waiting for
you. What's he sent, I don't know, So he went,
stayed with Miller's Guard, and he went through
the Second World War, Pete did. He was, he got
killed then. He was right in the middle of the
Battle of the Bulge and everything, but he was, but
he just got to squeak through that, right in
action. But he came back, he was a wreck too. Oh,
God, he was a wreck. But I took him in, told, we tried
to take him to Cuero, and my mother said, Buck, you
just have to do something with him, because we
can't, he can't, he just was, just an almost a
raving maniac. Was it from being shell-shocked?
Shell-shocked and no communication in Cuero. He
tried to bring a lot of people in, more or less in the
art world. I'm that way to service, but not like he
was. But an operator to Houston had kept him here
once, and he wanted to go back there. And he had some
nice contacts, but he came there. He went one year
to A&M. He said, this is not my cup of tea. Hell, I'll
get out of here. I said, why didn't you see it on
television? I said, I don't want to. I said, I loved
it. He's been around these people, Pete McGrath.
The association didn't have to be on. But he
didn't. He said he was. But he was a delightful
person. Now he's the one who went on to Italy and
worked in sculpture. All right. Now what about
your third brother? Dave is not, he was a
mechanical engineer. He graduated in 25. But he
was a wonderful craftsman, Woodward. He got into
woodwork, built his own thing. He went to
Charlotte, North Carolina with the Oak
Manufacturing. You know, and he was there, he
married there, he got a home. Then he started in
woodwork. That thing down, he'd done some
beautiful furniture and things. But the base of
that tree, insect and tree in the middle, that's
what Pete did. I don't know whether he ever cast
that thing. I don't know. God almighty. But
anyhow, he made the base. And Dave does a lot of
furniture with this on his own. But he hasn't got a
feeling for art at all. But there was another
manifestation of what you call it. There still is
Christ. Only one that didn't. They say Ted's a
ceramic, but there's these ceramic buddies. So
the talent was there, but the main thing is to go to
prove that you can have all the talent in the world
that can remain latent. Sometimes an artist,
unless you have tremendous desire to go ahead with
it, you'll die on the vine. You had to have a lift,
and we took Pete off that truck and sent him on to the
platform. And I never did, I just went on my own most
of the time. I got some help in here, and people say
it was relative, I don't know how it was. I get some
plaudits now and then, but you had to have
constructive help, I guess, wasn't anything
else, just innate feeling. And I get a lot of that
here, even with Frank and Wayne. It's associated,
see, but in the octet, it shouldn't be up there.
Anyhow, and Sharon Steen, I don't know what's her
name, but she's the one that sent the feeling of all
this encouragement, just the right thing, but how
is it that the percent is one of the most remarkable
women I've ever met in my life? But she's running
for mayor, put her on now. And God, But they gave me
this place, and until you see it, you don't see
where we went. Extremely went through to get a spot
for me. They put this old filling station up there,
moved it in, west off, convey with it. It was a mess,
filthy mess. Took it, made a pad, and stood you out
of it. That's my, that's my, that's my... I call it
my domain, but I've got, it's on 1100 acres, I'm
right in the middle of it out there, and I've got 60
beautiful cattle, crossbred cattle that belong
to Jeff, and Jeff's a freshman at A&M. And then a
coyote tonight, but it's an ultimate time, it's
rather desolate, I'll tell you that, but I don't
know. What was your father's reaction to all you
guys going into art? Did he? He just tolerated it. I
thought maybe after you broke the ground. I broke
the ground, yes. And I broke it for Pete. Pete
didn't want to go there. He may have given it a try.
And I broke the ground in a lot of ways. I took a lot of
that discipline. I was on heavy discipline all the
time, but I gave unmedicated help, too. I mean, I
really did. Oh, my God. I mean, the thing. Just
running away all the time. Escape complex. I rode
freight. I didn't appear every damn weekend. I
kept the freight and go somewhere. Fritz Handler
had his little garden class out there where we did
our landscaping. I'd be going by, there was about
one place, H&TC would come through. He said, put
your hoe down, Buck, there it is. I'd get on, I'd go
down somewhere. Did you pick out any place in
particular, or just go over? No, I didn't. Well,
that's another thing. Because it had its
compensations, because that's where I got to see
my Texas, didn't have a car. But even the Mahe oil
fields, I knew about those at night. I was here at
oil fields at night. So I took, I got on a cow catcher
here in H&TC, one of them, because they stopped
putting me off. But then I saw my first oil field at
night around Mahe, across the canyon.
But I, I, but it was just, it's a tremendous
restlessness. That's when, of course, I was the
beachcomber down in, you know, Magnolia, not
exactly, but I lived on the coast with the old
oyster fishermen and tents and goat milk and
everything else. But the line just...
Now, when you, when you just, when you just caught
this freight and went out someplace, did you draw
while you were out there? Just, just looked? Just
looked. Put it here. I do a lot of that. I photograph
my mind. I can drive through the country. and start
the camera snapping thing down, come back here and
almost put it down. I taught, I teach my class that,
to just go here and just concentrate,
concentrate. Focus on your mind, if it's exciting
enough. But I do a lot of that. I can come back and
almost, I'll miss some aspects of it, but I do that
quite often, because as soon as I get there, I don't
have a camera with me.
I just have to make a feel about it. Now the night,
no, not the other night, excuse me, but the other
day, A few weeks ago, we went down, called Kruger,
my, it was Polly's son, Al, Aggie style, but he
called me and said, Buck, come on down here. I said,
boy, we've got, we've been having beautiful
weather. Maybe we'll have this weekend in the
hooping cranes. Maybe we can see them. Close to
there. So I have seen them before, but the way out in
the marsh, it's the head sticking up. And he said,
come on. And I went down, and I have a, he only had one
of his condominiums. I mean, it's my, anytime I
wanted. So I went down there, and We went out that
Sunday morning. All of a sudden we saw one or two of
them marching just around a spit there. And of
course the command was the same spit. And there
were seven of them. The closest you'll ever see the
darn thing. And they were cavorting around. But
usually you never see it with three together. But I
went out, of course, I made a number of sketches. I
didn't take pictures. Some of them, you couldn't,
it was too far away. But I put it all down. That's
what I had in my field notes. different ones. I'll
put, from that I'll go on, I'll make it some nature
studies up close. But I got the antics and
everything, the way they behaved. But I didn't, I
sat in that boat, sketch, sketch, sketch, talked
to all the people down there. Then I found a
beautiful array of, oh, hundreds and hundreds of
white pelicans were soaring above it with
buzzards. And all of a sudden they came down and got
on this spit of land. Oh, here it is, right here.
This was quick, you know.
That's a
gorgeous book. And so you can remember things like
that and just come back and do it. Good heavens. Did
it just come through practice? Was it because you
were working in the daytime? We were doing so many
of them. Hundreds and hundreds of times. And all
I'm feeling, God, this one is just great. I had an
unusual one I got the other day. It's funny, but
it's not essential. But I was down in Seafloor and I
found this little vent here and an oleander bush
was coming out. It was called a Maverick Oleander,
but I found that down there. I've been doing these
all day, and then I saw a pencil, and I got this at
Lyons. There's no gin there, just a shack that,
well, Haskell closed by, so I got on down there. But
it's just things like this, and I don't know if it's
a particular, but it's just a documentary type.
But my gins, I have a feast for them, the old gems,
with the stacks. I mean, I have a collection of
about 100 of the old gems, and I don't know where to
put them down. Oh, good. You're going to do all
those for a book? No, I'll just be sitting. Maybe
get a book out of it later on. I mean, just on that one
premise, on the gems. But I do it because I do it. A
cotton man will buy them like nobody did. Yeah.
I've always got a lot of papers this far. I don't do
anything for that time. I just do it for a living.
The new jens you can have. I've been out on the site.
I just plate them and take all the new electric
jens. They just leave me cold. But the old jens? Oh,
yeah. God. Oh, they got that composition. One down
in Cuero. I'm going to do that one. Or in Yorktown. I
sold all those. Do you think all your architecture
training helped you get these kinds of ideas? This
is essentially architecture. I don't like
architecture as a whole. I like restorations. I go
down to these places like Round Top and off there
and through there, and I've got a whole series that
I don't have anymore. But I just put those down. And
architecture cleaning has helped, but I don't
like anything slick. People call up and say, hey, I
could just restore the new house down at Round Top
or Felt or Burton in the city. It's all slicked up
beautifully. I said, I'm sorry, but I preferred
when it was under was punished. I mean, that's
where, yeah. But I don't like to do, oh, I get calls
all the time. People are so proud. It's wonderful
that they're restoring them and keeping them
intact. Beautiful. But it don't make, go for
subject matter to me. Sometimes, I like old brick,
but, but restoration, that's another one of the
facets I've gotten into the help on, We're keeping
things intact, but essentially courthouses.
I've done that, a square courthouse I've ever
contacted, on Dewitt County. And I found out about
that, and I went and met with some of the women. I
said, my God, don't do that. And I ran some more of
this campaign for just keeping out a facade and
refurbishing the interior, make the modern out
with glass petitions and everything, actually
lower the ceiling. Oh, it fought me. God, it gave me
hell. And finally they did accomplish it, but it
cost them so much money, they were just mad
furious. And they said, oh Lord, I created a wave of
indignation. But anyhow, now they just
completely have it. And it's comfortable, and
they feel important, you know, they don't have the
old stinky, dark woodwork. But no, everybody's
very happy. In Victoria, they were going to tear it
down. I wrote an editorial, and they kept calling
on me. And Dallas wanted me to keep there, of
course. But I just can't allocate all my time to
that, because I'd rather continue with what I have
to do. That's my art. But this is important,
though. It's contributing. I think that's a great
thing. It's so essential, I think, that while you
go along, instead of being so self-centered and
selfish, but go ahead and contribute. I don't care
what it is, whether it's any causes, right? A lot of
things, too. Restorations. Do you find yourself
more productive now or less productive? I think
I'm more productive. I think about 180 degree turn
almost. Because I had a path operation, but I had a
time coming up. But I won't go into it, but the seams
broke on it, and then we opened up everything, and
infection, blood clots, and the one thing after
that. But I don't know if I've got it behind me now. I
feel just about as productive as I was in my life.
Maybe more so. Do you feel like that you've Or now
that you don't have the pressure of the agency
behind you, do you feel like you have more time to do
it in leisure? Or do you feel pressed now to do
things? I don't feel pressed. I don't want to be
pressed on anything. Like this book of Frank's.
I've got time on it, but we're going to use it. Oh, we
had a big meeting yesterday. Use the old stuff, and
some of this will be used in that. But no pressure.
But I said, Frank, let's go set a deadline. So we'll
get the things in. a big show in fall of 70s this
year, and then 78 will come out with a book, but not
this year. I don't want that. If I get the material
into this year, then they can go from then on,
because I have to do the narration to some extent. I
mean, the research I've done, which I did these
other two books, but of course they edited. I've
got to put it out, because I have my own vernacular
in writing, and I do like, like Toby traveled with
him a lot, man. He said, God Almighty, Buckingham
Butch said the King's English put poetry right
your way. So I don't care. He criticized him. But
that's another thing. I've had tremendous good
luck. Well, not good luck, but advantage that I
would travel with Mr. Dobie. People don't know
that. We went out to the field all the time. When did
you travel with Dobie? Oh, yeah, back in about 10
days ago. Before he died. Oh, I had to escapade with
him against the doctor's orders when he was a sick
man. I took him out. Oh. But But he was, it was such a
delight, and the man was so delighted. He went, I
can't tell you the story, too. Several times I took
his doctor's orders, I took him out. He'd be, but
please do this for me. I'm tired of being on the
shelf. Well, damn it, you don't have to be on the
shelf. Let's go. And I came back with him. We were
all at night. Oh, thank God for you. Better if you
like me. And walked away, but I was with him lots of
times. Better check with him. They're beautiful
people. Whew! That's gone. That's another
wonderful affiliation I had. But I didn't come
into their lives away until, oh, what's, the
mid-60s, I guess. But it was a delight. I could
have, if Mr. Dobie had lived, Frank, of course. We
had lots of things in mind we wanted to do. He wanted
to visit with me, of course. But, gee, it's a joy to
be with those people. You must have known them in
and around Austin then. Yeah.
Yeah, he had his ranch out there. Of course, now he
has Bassano at that time. He got a new ranch, bought
some other property. But I went out with Bassano
quite a few times. And we wanted to go to Beaver and
many places, but his family were brought away. He
had his ranch, his big ranch. He was a wonderful
fellow. I mean, he could be very raucous and tough,
but he was kind. He was constructive. But we hit it
off nicely.
Frank Vandervoort, I got closer to him than
anybody else. I knew him through the UDC work.
But next to home, I take it from here. I think that
you'll go back to Quirrell then for a while and work
around there. Do you intend to stick with
primarily native Texas scenes, Bob? I think I
will. No more battalion scenes? I don't know. Why
not? Why should I? Can't think of any particular
reason why you should at all? Because this is
embedded in Portland. It's deep in me, so much of
it. That I go other places, I might do things. Even
Italy was But the Roman Forum, my God, I was in joy.
1950, 1960, right, just at the Forum. And I don't
know, they sold, married and sold them off and on
different places in Venice. But I come back, oh,
it's a huge lift to see the beauty of those things.
And of course, you always think, isn't that what it
does? Creating your memories, my God. How did they
build the Colosseum? Just look at the heart. And
it's an odd violin, my God. But it doesn't come back
here. But this is, there's so much Texas has to
contribute yet. I want to put out a document or
whatever it is. I think that's my slide. Let's just
put it that way. I think this is what you should do as
so designated by the man above. You think an artist
ought to do things in his regions, things he has an
emotional feel for? No, I don't think I would.
Whatever comes off with you, I mean, it excites
you, it stimulates you, inspires you. No. I don't
believe that. You have to, because I am more of a
dedicated Texan than most artists. On average,
artists don't give a tank a damn about Texas. They
don't history. They don't, but you have to study
the history and know it. Probe it. Talk to people.
No, I, so much that's done, my art is just for
pictorial sense. It's called Superman. I'd be
superficial, but it's scenic entirely. But
there's much more in it. Especially if you do
housework, you have to be able to walk into a door
and see how inside a window, but there's just a heck
of a lot there. It's hard to describe. But you feel
it. Oh, thanks God, because I love the coast. I've
been having some escapades on the coast. I've been
through one of the hurricanes. I really did barely
squeak through. If I ride it out, I learned the hard
way. But I found, God, it was magnificent.
I don't know, it's a thing like challenges,
challenges, challenges. What do you need of them?
Give you stimulus. Do you think in a way, Buck, that
you'll be preserving past Texas culture in the
sense of this work? How me? I
don't know. It's a very wonderful culture. I look
at Elizabeth and I, because she did all this
statuary, what she has been doing. We did that, but
she's a more or less of a known entity in the eyes of
the modern art world. I'm going to do welding
stuff, crap. I thought, hell with you. Guy's going
to do welding, I'll do it too. Pete and I said, let's
make my place at home. Just the junk, you ought to
weld it. And I wouldn't want to do it, just for the
hell of it. I like some of it, but I think it'd be fun.
It would be, Pete and I want to do it together. I
said, let's go ahead. They think it's so damn good,
let's show them we're better.
Oh, it's good. I don't know if they're going to stay
South American. It's hard to get serious. You keep
a sense of humor. God knows. That is so important.
You think that would be the advice you'd give to a
young artist, to always keep a sense of humor? I
think to some extent. But they're too serious.
Most of them are. They're highly sensitive. They
react to any kind of adverse criticism. You have to
be more than an artist. You've got to be a human
being, a strong one. That's it. And if you want to be
associated with the cedar choppers, which I do. Of
course, I'm not going to go out and oil raid with
them. It's the roughest element you can find in
mankind, and you'll see what that... They all
contribute to him. Maybe Holmes' one philosophy
about it,
but I don't know. I feel sorry for the average
artist. I don't think they had the opportunity. I
feel sorry for them. It's a shame they can't,
whether they could accept things that I've been
through. I don't know. It's hard to tell. But
that's a whole other subject. I look at everything
as a new adventure, and there's something that's
different than, you know, like I said, the
assignment's over with me. Everything's on my own
volition. But did you ever think about going to
Europe and doing work in the 20s? Europe? Yeah. No.
Never worked, right? Did it go over there? I had
sandwiches. I could have been sent over there, but
even the architect playing with Tompkins Swain
would go there and take a look at some ironwork in
Spain.
I, right now, I think I was foolish not doing it, but
I was a little bit skittish about what I did. If I'd
have gone with somebody, I think maybe I should
have done something, I don't know. I don't look
back at anything. Whatever happened, happened.
It was for a purpose. My pattern's been laying,
whatever the pattern was like, the schedule,
whatever.
I don't like
planning anything anymore. My deadline's too
long.